- [Narrator] Okay now that we've seen the APIs,
let's go ahead and set up
the Java Enterprise Edition Application.
We are going to build a RESTful application.
We are going to see the usage of the
enterprise concurrency APIs inside a REST class.
So through a REST class we are going to use them.
So let's see what to do in order to set up
that RESTful application in the NetBeans IDE.
The first step is to create a new project
from Maven archetype.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm just going
to clear everything, stop everything,
and let's start from the beginning.
Clear this out.
Okay.
So I'm gonna say new project
and there you choose option of Maven.
Now under this list for a particular project,
I'm actually going to make one from a Maven archetype.
So say next and it will search for that archetype.
The archetype is Java EE 8 Essentials Archetype.
Very convenient archetype which will give you
a complete reference to the Java EE 8 APIs.
Okay say next
and give it a name.
So let's call it javaeeconcurrency.
Let's get rid of the default package.
We don't want that.
We'll create our own packages.
And say finish.
So let the project be now constructed
inside the IDE.
This is how it looks like.
You have your RESTful web services contained here.
You have source packages
and the rest of the dependencies full.
Right.
Now this project is going to do database interactions
and it will also use connection pooling by a third party.
C3PO we'll talk all about this
in the subsequent videos.
Do not bother too much about that right now.
So we will have to add the dependencies
for all of these external jars into the project.
Right.
The dependencies file is already
available as part of your exercise files.
You can pick those from there.
So I'm just going to quickly
get those dependencies, yeah.
So if you are able to see
this is the connector dependency which
is the driver jar file for the database.
Then theses couple of dependencies
are for the C3PO connection pooling.
We'll see why we need that but,
let's right now
just add these to the configuration file.
So I'm going to take this, copy,
go to my IDE
and under the project files go to pom.xml
and we see that the dependency for
Java EE API has already been inserted
because of the archetype.
So further to that, we are going to add
our own dependencies.
Right?
So these couple of them as I said
are for the connection pooling mechanism.
This is for the driver jar of the database.
Okay.
So what is the next step?
Create all packages for beans,
rest classes, DAO classes, okay.
So let's go ahead
and under the source package
if you see there are the default packages
that have got created because of the archetype.
We do not need them, okay.
This is a RESTful application
and this is definitely going to deal
with the basics of JAX-RS services.
In case you think you do not really know
much about JAX-RS services I will
request you to take a very basic
course on JAX-RS right here on LinkedIn Learning, right.
So these are the default packages we do not want them.
We just want to grab the JAX-RS configuration class.
Very crucial.
So this is a JAX-RS Java API for
RESTful web services application
that we are trying to build.
And the class that we are looking at right now
is going to extend the application class.
Now when you talk about this is a basic class
that will define the components of your JAX-RS application
and it will also given the additional metadata.
So whenever you want to run this application,
the starting point will be this basic configuration
class for your RESTful application.
It will contain, of course, the
reference of all your RESTful beans
and whenever you want to access
this RESTful application
you'll have to access the resources path
on line number 12 first
and then the path of the specific RESTful bean
that you want to go to.
Now in case you do not have much knowledge
about JAX-RS services implementation,
I'll request you to take a small course
about it on LinkedIn Learning.
There after which you can proceed with this video.
So this is the basic configuration class
for our RESTful application
and all the RESTful resources that
you want to access.
The application path annotation
mentions the URI.
So this is the basic URI for this application.
If you want to access any RESTful bean
out of this application you have to
first access the resources path, right.
So if we are just going to grab this class,
copy,
and paste it in our own package.
So let's create a package first.
Let's say com.app.rest.
Okay.
So these are going to have the REST classes.
And I'm going to copy this.
Refactor and copy because we will
also have to change the package name.
Get rid of the unwanted inputs and there we go.
So now the JAX-RS configuration class,
the basic JAX-RS service,
is going to be present inside com.app.rest.
So now we can delete these default packages.
We do not need them anymore.
Okay.
So for those who are a little newer
to the concept of JAX-RS service,
this is a configuration class which
extends the application class from
java.ws.rs.core package
and this is the one that is going to provide
you with the basic URI for your application, right.
Next step will be
to create a RESTful bean,
define at the rate path.
The path annotation to it
and specify its URI.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and create a RESTful bean here.
So that will be class basically
and let's say it is
GreetResource.
Just trying greet the user.
Okay.
This has to be annotated
with the path annotation.
So path will signify a value
and let's say that value is greetUser.
And what does this do?
In order to reach the RESTful bean of GreetResource,
you will have to access this path in the URL.
Right?
So when you hit this application,
you're supposed to first access the basic URI
and then access the URI with respect
to the RESTful bean, right.
So that becomes the URI for this resource.
Next we have the write at REST method
annotated with either @GET or @POST.
So as we know, that when you talk
about a RESTful service the methods
that you write inside it
will correspond to the STDP type requests, right.
So let's say I want to add on a method
which corresponds to HTP GET.
So I'm going to say at the rate GET.
So this can be imported.
The annotation can be imported from javas.ws.rs
on line number 8.
The import is already come there.
Right.
Let's go down and write a method.
So say public, let this return a string
and we'll just say greetUser.
Return a simple value which is
let's not say hello world for a change
let's say Java EE concurrency starts.
Okay.
Another thing is, we created a package for REST but,
we still have to create package for beans,
DAO classes, et cetera.
So let's also get done with that.
Under the source package let's say Java package
com.app.beans.
Another package will be database interaction classes.
All of them will reside under com.app.dao.
And then of course the runnable,
the tasks that we have to define.
Another package for that
com.app.runnables.
Great.
So our entire structure is ready.
The RESTful resource is already added there.
So now,
let's clean and build this project
so that all the dependencies specifies in the palm XML
get installed for this project.
So now we are going to run this application
using application server.
And then we'll test out the RESTful API
using the postman tool.